# DKAN 1.12.12 Release Notes

This is a "patch" release of DKAN, containing bug fixes and minor updates to DKAN 7.x-1.12, but adding no new functionality. Upgrading should be straightforward.

## Group assignment cleanup update
This release contains a database update that may take some time to complete on larger sites. As described in [#1267](https://github.com/GetDKAN/dkan/issues/1267), on older DKAN sites it was very easy to add resources to datasets that would not be added to the parent dataset's group.

Many sites may have this issue and not even realize, but it will create problems for organizations that use DKAN's out-of-box group roles and permissions; it give users permission to edit content in their own group but not content outside of it. If a resource is not assigned to a group, this could block a group user from editing their groups' own datasets.

This patch release contains a database update that will identify datasets with resources missing their group assignments, and correct them. See pull request [#1491](https://github.com/GetDKAN/dkan/issues/1491) for the fix itself.

## Other improvements in this release
- Data previews can be captured in a certain state for embedding into other web pages as an iframe, but these previews were not cached by Drupal. This has been fixed; embedded previews are now cached, which is a significant performance boost for some websites.
- Upgraded Drupal core to 7.52, ctools to 1.11, and Media to 2.0-beta13.
- Fixed links to group pages from group node teasers that broke when site has clean urls disabled
- Fixed some issues with certain filters/facets on the search page being unexpectedly collapsed.
- Fixed a bug introduced on a previous patch release that hid the body field on page nodes.
- Improved the access check and security on datastore pages - unauthorized users could perform certain datastore functions by guessing URLs.
- Fixed "page not found" errors when clicking certain topics links with spaces or special characters in them.
