# DKAN 1.13.4

This is a "patch" release of DKAN, containing bug fixes and minor
updates, but adding no new functionality.

## Improvements in this release

The 1.13.4 release of DKAN contains a very large number of minor fixes.
For a full list check the CHANGELOG. Noteable improvements include:

- Some logic concerning when previews were rendered for resources has
been simplified. DKAN will now attempt to render a preview for any
resource that contains an *uploaded* or *remote* file. No *API or
Website URL* links in resources will be previewed other than with an
iframe to the URL. Note that in some cases, resources that
previously did have Recline previews may now simply display an
iframe to the remote resource.

- Relatedly, various issues with previews for resources hosted on
external domains have been addressed.

- Publishing options ("draft," "published" etc) were not available
when the Workflow module was enabled. This has been fixed.

- A bug where data previews broke when a resource contained *only*
numeric data has been fixed.

- A number of Workflow permissions issues have been resolved, allowing
users to access "stale drafts" and other data that had been hidden.

- The groups page now lists groups alphabetically rather than by
create date.

- Fixed the output for "language" in Project Open Data and DCAT to
be standards-compliant.

- Fixed issues with how timestamps are applied to harvested datasets.
See below for details.

- An existing hook_update function that upgraded from a previous version of the
Open Data Federal Extras module has been fixed to not fail when the fields are
not present.

- The `drush dsu` command, to update a datastore from a local file, was broken
and has been restored.

- Windows line endings are now supported on Datastore "fast imports"

- Several issues causing the Harvester to break on large harvests have been
fixed. Remote files on servers (like Socrata) that will not supply a HEAD
request are briefly stored on disk instead of in memory to obtain metadata such
as filesize. Also, resource previews are no longer rendered for purposes of
indexing for Search API, which was causing indexing at the end of a large
harvest to fail.

- Drupal core was updated to 7.56 and many contrib modules were updated to
their latest stable version.

## Special Notes

- Previous versions of DKAN provided a field "Modified Source Date"
(machine name `field_modified_source_date`) to store [Project Open
Data's "modified" property](https://project-open-data.cio.gov/v1.1/schema/#modified).
The way we capture sources' `modified` and `issued` properties has
since been revamped (see \#1802), and an update function was needed
to remove the old field. However, previous versions had put
hook\_update functions in the wrong order and some sites did not
recieve the change when updating. This release should clear up those
remaining issues on sites that still have the
`field_modified_source_date` field.
