# DKAN 1.15 Release notes

## What's New
### API improvements
A solid API is the window for DKAN to easily integrate with any other useful tool that allows us to get more value from our Open Data. DKAN will not be able to be all thing to all people, but with a solid API we can be the central repository for your data without any fear of any limitations. In this set of improvements, we’ll be making some fixes to allow our API to consume the same kinds of content it creates.

### DKAN Link Checker
This new feature is included in the distro but not enabled by default. It is based on the Link checker module with some additional code to add views support and file url support. It is intended to help site managers see where links are failing in their data catalog and make it easy to weed out or fix the data.

Once enabled, urls in datasets, resources and harvest sources will be checked when cron runs. If a link is found to be broken it will be added to a report visible to site managers. The report will include the error code, the url that triggered the error, a link to the content where the error occurs, the contact name and email if available, a date when it was last checked, and an option to exclude the url from future checks. The report also allows you to filter on public access (public, restricted, or private), or by content type, or error type.

### Additional improvements in this release

 - #2434 Disable option to assign content to anonymous user
 - #2431  Fix calls to the empty function that check the return value of a function or method
 - #2405 & #2427 Improve tests
