# DKAN 1.17 Release notes

## What's new

### PHP 7.2 Support
DKAN code and all contrib modules have been updated to be compatible with PHP 7.2.

### DKAN Periodic Updates
The DKAN Periodic Updates module provides automated datastore updates on existing resources on a daily, weekly or monthly basis. If you have resources that change often and need the data to be re-imported to the datastore on a regular basis this feature is for you. It is included with DKAN core but will not be enabled by default. Consult the [documentation](https://docs.getdkan.com/en/latest/components/periodic-updates.html) on how to set up and configure.

### Miscellaneous improvements
This release includes updates and bug fixes to DKAN Workflow, Open Data Schema Mapper, and accessibility compliance.

### The decommissioning of Feeds
The 7.x-1.16 release introduced a refactored DKAN Datastore that no longer relied the [feeds](https://drupal.org/project/feeds) module. In this release we are disabling feeds and its companion modules so that in the next release they can be completely removed from the code base.

#### If you have custom code:

- If you are NOT using feeds, feeds_field_fetcher, or feeds_flatstore_processor in your custom code, you can proceed with the upgrade without additional preparations.

- If you DO use feeds, feeds_field_fetcher, or feeds_flatstore_processor in your custom code: 
  > ⚠️ This release **disables** and **uninstalls** the feeds module. If you are using feeds on your site outside of the DKAN open data operations, be sure to backup your database. Comment out the update hook _dkan_update_7035_. You will also need to create custom permissions to assign permissions for these modules to your user roles.

### Manual Deployment steps
- `drush rr`
- `drush updb -y`
- `drush cc all`
- > ℹ️  As part of the update hook *dkan_update_7035* all feeds related modules are disabled so it is possible that the next time you log in to your site you get a message stating that "The content access permissions need to be rebuilt", if that's the case you can proceed safely to execute the rebuild process.

7.x-1.17
-----------
 - #2956 Update new WCAG-compliant default theme colors to be consistent across the site.
 - #2957 Update frequency values on default content files.
 - #2954 Update contrib modules, adjust DKAN code to support PHP 7.2
 - #2951 Update default greetings on workbench email templates.
 - #2908 Add DKAN Periodic Updates module
 - #2804 Disable and uninstall feeds, feeds_flatstore_processor, and feeds_field_fetcher modules
 - #2945 Upgrade imagecache_actions to 1.11
 - #2944 Specify behavior on dkan_workflow moderation set state action to avoid extra node_save.
 - #2943 Add documentation for DKAN Feedback
 - #2940 Update Open Data Schema Map to 7.x-2.4
 - #2935 Add documentation for DKAN custom solr
 - #2931 Add patch for NULL controller class
 - #2921 Fix gaps in WCAG compliance