docs/development/index.rst, before:

Extending and Customizing DKAN
==============

Much additional functionality can be added simply by installing one of the
tens of thousands of `contrib  modules <https://www.drupal.org/project/project_module>`_
from the Drupal community. However, as a `Drupal
Distribution <https://drupal.org/documentation/build/distributions>`_ DKAN is a
flexible framework which developers can also build off of and add to.

DKAN consists of of a distribution profile which manages the initial
installation, 3rd party libraries and drupal modules, and DKAN specific
modules.

Below is a simplified version of where the DKAN code sits within the fully
packaged version::

   profiles/
       dkan/
         libraries/ (3rd party libraries)
         modules/
            dkan/ (dkan modules)
            contrib/ (3rd party module dependencies)
         themes/ (dkan themes)
   sites/
      all/
         libraries/ (your libraries)
         modules/ (your modules)
         themes/ (your themes)

After installing DKAN additional functionality should be added to the "sites"
directory.

In the future, this section will feature more detailed information on developing
custom extentions to DKAN.

Commit message:

Remove admin section, move license field content to dev section

docs/development/index.rst, after:

Extending and Customizing DKAN
===============================

Much additional functionality can be added simply by installing one of the
tens of thousands of `contrib  modules <https://www.drupal.org/project/project_module>`_
from the Drupal community. However, as a `Drupal
Distribution <https://drupal.org/documentation/build/distributions>`_ DKAN is a
flexible framework which developers can also build off of and add to.

DKAN consists of of a distribution profile which manages the initial
installation, 3rd party libraries and drupal modules, and DKAN specific
modules.

Below is a simplified version of where the DKAN code sits within the fully
packaged version::

   profiles/
       dkan/
         libraries/ (3rd party libraries)
         modules/
            dkan/ (dkan modules)
            contrib/ (3rd party module dependencies)
         themes/ (dkan themes)
   sites/
      all/
         libraries/ (your libraries)
         modules/ (your modules)
         themes/ (your themes)

After installing DKAN additional functionality should be added to the "sites"
directory.

In the future, this section will feature more detailed information on developing
custom extentions to DKAN. For now, read additional information about:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   license
   modules
