@page metastore Metastore

DKAN's **Metastore** helps you manage your data resources. With it you can create, retrieve, update, and delete data within DKAN.

DKAN introduces the @ref Dataset "dataset" as the main structure utilized within DKAN to organize your data.

As an Open Data Catalog, DKAN's main goal is to help you share a collection (Catalog) of datasets.

A dataset can have any shape. What is most important is that it points to the data you are trying to share, and that it gives useful contextual information to ther user's trying to get the data: When the data was released; how often it is updated; whom published it; etc.

The data itself, or the file, or other locations where it can be found, are usually referred to as Resources.

The shape of the datasets in DKAN are determined by a [schema](https://json-schema.org/).

Out of the box DKAN provides and utilizes [DCAT-US Schema](https://resources.data.gov/resources/dcat-us/) for the datasets it will store. 

A number of json files containing schemas can be located at the root of the codebase in the schemas directory. The dataset schema is in the dataset.json file.

In DCAT-US, resources are placed under the *distribution* portion of the dataset.

If you would like to use a different schema for your datasets, check out the @ref ChangingYourDatasetSchema "Changing your Dataset Schema" section of the documentation.

Give that the main goal of DKAN and the Metastore is to share data, one of you first tasks in DKAN will be to @ref tut_dataset "create some datasets".

## Configuration
@anchor ChangingYourDatasetSchema
### Changing your Dataset Schema
It is possible to add new fields to conform to additional specifications or custom requirements. DKAN supports changing which schema is used to validate dataset data being added to the catalog.

To change the schema being used, copy the `schema` directory from the DKAN repo and place it in the root of your Drupal installation. Then make any modifications necessary to the `dataset.json` file inside the `collections` directory.

@warning
  The schema is actively used by the catalog to verify the validity of the data. Making changes to the schema, after data is present in the catalog should be done with care as non-backward compatible changes to the schema could cause issues. Look at Drupal::metastore::SchemaRetriever::findSchemaDirectory() for context.
