@page contributing Contributing

## Submission guidelines
### Submitting an issue

Before you submit an issue, please search the issue queue, maybe an issue for your problem already exists and the discussion might inform you of solutions readily available.

We want to fix all the issues as soon as possible, but before fixing a bug we need to reproduce and confirm it. In order to reproduce bugs we will systematically ask you to provide a minimal reproduction scenario using the bug report issue template. Please stick to the issue template.

Unfortunately we are not able to investigate / fix bugs without a minimal reproduction scenario, so if we don't hear back from you we may close the issue.

### Submitting a Pull Request (PR)

**Development:** Fork the project, set up the development environment, make your changes in a separate git branch and add descriptive messages to your commits.

**Test:** Before submitting a pull requests, test all of your changes. If your new code changes existing functionality, update the existing tests. If you are adding functionality, add test coverage for the new code.

**Pull Request:** After testing, commit your changes, push your branch to GitHub and send a PR to the right project. If we suggest changes, make the required updates, rebase your branch and push the changes to your GitHub repository, which will automatically update your PR. At all times, please ensure the automated build passes so that a minimal amount of tests are passed for your code.

After your PR is merged, you can safely delete your branch and pull the changes from the main (upstream) repository.

@subpage conduct
